Of course, not every store is going to have upsells on their cart page.
But it's a good opportunity to increase average order value by
offering an easy way for customers to add additional products to their cart.
Using Vue.js, we can make this interaction pretty smooth and seamless.
If we go into our code editor again,
you can see that we're bringing in these values through
Shopify Liquid and we're doing our loops and conditionals through Shopify Liquid.
Just like we've done up here, we're going to need to refactor this.
The first thing we need to do is get these upsells
inside an array on an actual view instance.
After cart, what I'm going to do is create an array called upsells.
Here we're going to load in that collection that we're including up here,
but in our view data so we can make this section a bit
more interactive and you'll see why we need to do that in just a second.
Just like we did on the product page for variance,
I'm going to create a Liquid loop here to bring in products from a particular collection.
I'm going to use the shoes collection.
Remember, this value here needs to match the handle of a collection in
your store if you've imported the shoes and then created a collection with those shoes,
and then verify that the handle is shoes then it should work.
Otherwise, you'll need to do that.
Obviously, we're going to have to put products on the end here.
I'm going to close that,
endfor, and then inside here,
open up an object and let's copy some values over from Shopify Liquid.
So tidal.
Following this same format,
I think I'm going to just breeze through these right
now because we've seen this before and I'm just basically
copying the data from the Shopify back-end using Shopify Liquid into our front end here.
I'll fast forward through this a little bit.
Make sure to end the objects with a comma
here so that you have separation between those objects.
As you can see here, we're bringing in the title,
the handle, the image,
the product ID; which will become clear why we're doing that in just a sec,
and of course the variant ID.
Because the variant ID, as we know,
is what actually gets added to the cart.
Let's refresh our page and just check that the data is coming across.
As you can see here,
we haven't actually got anything in our upsells array,
let's check why that might be the case.
I see here that we forgot an s on collections. Hit save on that.
Now you can see the upsell array has all the same information as we have down
here and now we can loop through this instead of using Shopify Liquid.
Let's go in and refactor this code now.
I'm going to inside here do a v-for or v-if rather.
If upsells.length is greater than zero.
We can get rid of this surrounding if statement now.
That is some code that shouldn't be there.
I'm just going to remove that.
Then inside the loop,
instead of doing this loop,
what we're going to do is put it here.
I'm going to do a template,
v-for upsell in upsells.
We put this around that to replace the for-loop.
In order to mimic this limit,
I'll show you in just a sec how we do that,
we're going to have to add in the extra attribute here of index.
This will track the index of the item and the array,
and then we can do v-if index is less than five.
Refreshing the page, you can see that we've lost our upsells generated by Shopify Liquid.
That's because we actually need to go in here and update these attributes.
Just like we did with the cart table above,
I'm going to replace these with view attributes.
Upsell title, and then for this one, the src,
we're going to put the colon in front of it,
remove this and use upsell image.
I think that's it. Refreshing the page over here,
see that still doesn't work.
I think our issue here is that we need to move index to the element underneath.
This is the difference between Vue 2 and Vue 3,
you can do this in Vue 2 but not in Vue 3.
Refresh over here. There you go.
Now we can see the products are in there.
We just need to make this index
less than four and yet now we only have the four products in there.
Now that we're using Vue for display of these upsells now rather than Shopify Liquid,
we're on to the next step which is to enable these "Add to Cart" buttons to work.
What I'm going to do, head over to the code and
let's create a new method for add to cart.
We've got our remove from cart here.
I might just put it before the remove to cart.
Add to cart.
In order to add any product to the cart,
we're going to need to know its variant ID.
As always, we can refer to the reference here on the Shopify official documentation.
I just found this by the way,
by searching Shopify Ajax API.
It should be on the Cart API just there.
So not too hard to find with a bit of Googling. Here we go.
We need to send through an items array with
the variant ID of the product and the quantity of how much we want to add.
Currently, our website, we don't have the option to add
more than one quantity at the time of
adding the product to the cart from the product page.
But if we had that,
we could use that value to put in as the option here but in our instance,
we're just going to put in one for this value.
All we need is the variant ID of the product,
which we're going to add one of to the cart.
We're going to open up a post request here.
It's going to be cart add.js.
Next, we're going to have the items array and
inside we're going to have another object and we're just adding one item.
ID is going to be equal to ID.
This syntax means that we don't have to do this,
we can just do that,
and quantity is going to be one as we've mentioned just before.
Then once we get a response back from the API,
we're going to do what we always do JSON pause it so we can have it as
a JavaScript object and then take the item that it returns.
What are we going to do? Let's just console log it because we
can't actually update our cart like we usually would because
the add to cart Ajax request actually returns an item rather than a cart.
Let's go back to here.
Let's open up the Network tab,
close down or clear the previous network activity.
Let's add an item to the cart.
Actually, before we do that,
we have to actually link this.
So I'm going to have to grab add to cart,
put it on the click event here.
I'm going to have to put upsell.variant ID.
Let's refresh over here,
clear the Network tab,
and click "Add to Cart" and let's see what happens.
If we go inside we'll see that we get an items array returned.
It's not actually item, its items.
Here you can see the data that's being passed in.
I'll change this to items.
But regardless, when we go into the console,
you should see that we get that response back
in our console because our console logged it here.
If we refresh the page,
you'll see that we've added that product to a cart.
Like I mentioned though,
we don't actually get the cart objects back.
So how are we going to make sure that this cart
updates after we add a product to the cart?
In this situation, what we can do is simply request the cart again.
We can do the same thing that we did in created.
Grabbing this and setting the cart.
But that would be very dry code because we will be repeating
ourselves by having the exact same code in two different places.
What I'm going to do is create a new method with this called get cart.
This is going to be at the start of our list because it's
central to our view instance here.
Sorry I called it get start, get cart.
Then instead of running it here,
I'm just going to call this get cart.
Exact same code, but now we can take this and run the same code on this method.
The items come back,
but we just run get cart.
When we're running Ajax add to cart,
it's actually running two Ajax requests.
You'll see that now,
unfortunately we have an error.
I forgot to put a comma here after the method.
Refreshing the page you can see here.
What we're going to do is I'm going to remove this t-shirt,
and let's add insane shoes to the cart.
As you can see, there's a little bit of a glitch there with the image,
but you can see insane shoes has now been added to the cart as well.
What we did, added the product to the cart using
the Ajax API and then ran another request to the API to fetch the whole cart.
It's easier that way than trying to add in
the item to the existing card object and then update the total.
I find it's just easier to get the cart again after updating the cart or adding to it.
Now we've hooked up all the main interactions.
We're able to update the quantity of items in the cart.
We can remove a product from the cart.
We can add a new product from these upsells to the cart but there are
a few little things here that we could do to make the user experience nicer and smoother.
Number 1, if I add a product from the cart upsells to the cart,
then I should remove that product from the cart upsells,
or at the very least,
indicate that that product has already been added to the cart.
If I just click "Add to cart" on the same product again,
all it's going to do is update that quantity,
which may be okay,
but I think could definitely be improved.
The other thing is when you're waiting for that add to cart to happen,
there's no feedback to the user.
So suddenly you click on the button,
nothing happens and then a few seconds later,
once the asynchronous request has been finished,
then it suddenly pops up in your cart.
The other thing is, these don't have any nice transitions.
It's all quick and a bit too snappy,
and we want to smoothen that out a little bit.
That's what we'll do in the final part of this video here.
What I'm going to do first is create a filtered array of upsells.
Like I mentioned, if a particular upsell is added to the cart,
I want to remove that from the upsells array and not show it in this list of upsells.
In order to do that, what I'm going to do is use a computed property.
I'm going to create a computed property.
I like to do this ahead of methods.
We saw computed properties in the last lesson on the product template.
We're going to use it again here to create a computed property called filtered upsells,
which is just going to be a filtered version of the upsells.
What I'm going to do, this is going to be a little bit of complicated code.
But what we're trying to do is find the intersection of items
in the cart and in the upsells array.
If it's in the cart,
remove it from this filtered upsell array.
I'm going to break it down into two steps.
First, I'm going to get the list of products in the cart.
I'm going to call this products in a cart.
But because we are going to be looking up via the variant ID,
that's the way we're going to identify,
we're going to use a map function in JavaScript.
Instead of saying this.cart.items,
which will give you the list of objects,
I'm going to transform this into an array targeting
the specific value of item product ID.
I will show you what this does in just a second.
I'm going to convert that into a string using the two string method.
We can't do a console log,
unfortunately inside a computed property.
What I like to do it's just for debugging purposes,
is move it out of the computed property into something like created.
Then it'll run on page load.
If we go now I'm refresh the page,
unfortunately, it's coming back with an empty array.
I think that's largely because we are still waiting on
the cart to arrive from the Ajax API.
Little bit of a hack, but I'm going to put a timeout
here to just get it to execute a little later,
like maybe two seconds later than what it was before.
Let's just get this code to execute two seconds after created.
As you can see, we've got an array with all the variant IDs.
If we add another product to the cart,
we've got gnarly shoes in there. Let's refresh.
Two seconds later, we'll see an array with all our variant IDs.
Moving that back into the computed property,
what I'm going to do is take that array of
variant IDs representing the products already in the cart,
and then I'm going to filter the upsells based on that.
Going to filter the upsells,
take each individual upsell and if not,
products in cart includes upsell products ID.
This is a bit of a lengthy piece of code.
But basically what we're saying here is this will return true
if products in carts or array of variant IDs that relate to the products in the cart,
includes the product ID of the upsell.
Basically if the upsell is in the cart.
If not, we want to return those upsells.
It's basically filtering out any of the upsells that are already in the cart.
What we can do now is instead of running through upsells,
here we can put in filtered_upsells,
giving it enough time to load and refreshing our page over here.
We should start to see now that none of these products are already in the cart.
If I add Old School Kicks,
you'll see that the list of upsells down here updates.
We've filtered out the upsells that have been added to the cart already.
If I remove this,
you'll see Insane Shoes goes back into the upsell array.
We now sorted out that issue with the upsells.
We don't want to upsell a product that's already been sold.
We want to remove it if it's in the cart already.
What I want to do, however,
when I add a product to the cart is provide some feedback to the user.
What we can do is use an if statement for that.
What I'm going to put here in the Add to Cart button,
I'm going to put in another button ahead of it.
You'll see why I'm doing that in just a second.
I'm going to give this the class of upsell-atc.
Actually, save myself some time.
I can just copy this.
What I'm going to do also is add a modifier class on here, upsell-button--adding.
What I'm about to do here is change the button state.
Instead of add to cart,
it's going to say adding,
and that style should already be set up in the theme CSS file.
Refreshing the page over here,
you'll see that each of them have this adding state,
but we want to alternate between them based on
whether a product is being added or it's not.
How we do that is let's add another attribute to our data.
We can go into here and creates a loading state.
When the page first loads,
this is empty and then after a while,
the asynchronous requests to the Ajax API will return the cart and update it.
On page load, let's make loading true.
But after every Ajax request where we've finished something,
we're going to put loading to false.
What are those situations?
If we scroll down here,
we could possibly put it here after get_cart.
But as you can see, it hits the set_cart.
What I'm going to do is go down to set_cart and then after format_prices,
I'm going to put in this loading equals false.
Of course, loading is going to be true when we first load the page,
but then once it's set to false,
we need the opportunity to set it to true again.
For that, what we're going to do is when we're adding a product to the cart,
we're going to set this loading equals true.
When we're removing a product from the cart,
we're going to set this.loading equals true.
We're not going to do it for update cart because this is okay to me,
we're not going to put in animation for this specifically.
But for removing from the cart,
I want there to be a loading state.
It may not be clear exactly right now while we're doing this,
but you'll soon see how that loading attribute
will allow us to create a few nicer transitions.
Let's have a look at if I remove this now,
let's refresh over here. Start that again.
If I click this,
it will go loading for a split second,
and then once it's finished loading, it will go false.
Same thing with Add to Cart.
Once I add it to cart,
it will go loading true for a split second and then go to false.
We're going to use that in just a second but before we do,
I want to add one more loading state and that is on these particular items.
We're going to have to do it on an individual item basis here.
You can't do it on the overall cart object.
What I'm going to do is move over to our upsells array
here and put on a loading state on each of the upsell items.
The way I'm going to do that,
I'm going to call it adding,
get real specific here,
and call it adding_upsell.
By default, that's going to be set to false because when we're loading the page,
we aren't adding an upsell.
But when we're doing this Add to Cart here,
we want to set the adding upsell attribute on the particular upsell to true.
What we're going to have to do for that to access the actual object
is find the upsell first because right now,
we only have the upsells variant ID.
We're going to have to look up that actual upsell object.
I'm going to create a const upsell here,
and then find inside the upsells array the upsell with the variant ID
that's passed in upsell.variant_id equals id.
Again, now that we have the variant object,
we can go here and do upsell.adding_upsell equals true.
Then when it's finished loading,
we can set the adding_upsell attribute on the particular upsell to false.
Let's switch back to our front-end app now.
Let's observe the upsells array as we add in a product to the cart.
Sometimes this happens so quickly that it doesn't even have time to update.
I'll click "Add to Cart" here and you'll see,
it still says false.
If I get a little bit faster,
then you'll see it switches to true before it goes to false.
There we go, true or false.
You can see both the cart table was loading
then and the adding upsell state went to true as well.
What we can do now is add a transition to the cart table,
and then also swap out these buttons depending on
what state the upsell is in terms of
whether it's adding or not adding to the cart currently.
Let's go back in.
All I have to do with these two elements,
I've got them side-by-side,
but now, I can just put v-ifs on them.
I'm going to do v-if=product.adding_upsell,
then we're going to display this.
Otherwise, we're going to display the usual Add to Cart button.
That should be all that's required for the interaction with the product upsells,
looks like I've made an error here adding upsell.
I've named this product instead of upsell, upsell.adding_upsell.
Refresh. you can see that button does not show because we're not currently adding upsell.
But if I click on this,
you'll see that the buttons switches over
briefly to give it a loading state before it adds to the cart,
and then the item disappears because it's now been filtered out of our upsell array.
I can do that with Gnarly Shoes as well.
As you can see, it has an adding state before I add it to the cart. There we go.
We've given upsells a bit of a loading state there, and now,
we are going to wrap the cart table in a bit of a transition element.
Right here, within the cart table,
I'm going to add a transition element like we did on the product template.
Put all this inside
the transition elements called the transition elements name fade.
Finally, one more step,
what we're going to have to do is check for that loading state.
We're going to cut all that but have it still on my clipboard.
Create a div and put an attribute on their code v-show.
If it's not loading, it's going to show.
That might sound a little bit redundant,
but it's going to give that functionality of fading
in and fading out by not showing when it's loading.
When it's not loading, it won't show and that will trigger the transition.
Then when it comes back on,
the transition will fade it in.
Let's have a look at how that works.
As you can see, when I refresh the page,
the cart faded in.
If I add a product to the cart,
the cart fades out.
If I remove an item from the cart, it fades out.
The reason why it's doing this,
the way we've got it to act like this is because we're
setting this state of loading when we're adding a product to
the cart down here and we're also
updating that loading state when we're removing products from the cart as well.
We're also on page load,
having it set to loading until the set_cart
is finished processing and then loading goes to false.
That makes the loading state of our cart table a little nicer.
I'm sure that you could improve upon this a lot more.
I'm not necessarily a designer,
but this is the core functionality and
principles within view to make this happen. There you have it.
If we close our Developer Tools,
we've now got our product page working with some nice transitions.
I can add a medium red T-Shirt to my cart.
Go over here, upsell with some Insane Shoes.
Go to Checkout if I want or increase the quantity.
Maybe put this up to three.
This is all synchronized with our cart Ajax API.
If I was on an actual production store,
I could hit "Checkout" here and check out.
Actually, I think it might actually let me check out. There you go.
Here you go, that's my selection.
Yeah, that's pretty much it for the cart page.
I know this is quite a long video or set of videos to get this cart page working.
But this is the biggest area of interaction within a Shopify site most usually.
Think about when you go shopping,
things stay on the shelves until you pick them
up and put them in your cart or put them back.
The user's main interaction with your site that makes sense to
use Vue with at least is the cart interactions.
Obviously, also, the variant switching very handy to have Vue for that.
As I mentioned earlier,
if you did want to filter your collection page,
you could have some hectic filters in here.
If you had a lot of products within
your store and a lot of different attributes to filter on,
you might make this a Vue app as well.
But the main principle is anytime you've got
some interactions that need to happen live on the front end,
you will at least want to use JavaScript and I
would encourage you to use Vue or some other kind of framework.
Obviously, you've learned Vue in this class so that's what I would recommend but
this should be a good starting point for
you to start incorporating Vue into your projects.
Depending on when you're watching this class,
the next video might be a bonus video on using
Vuex in case you are sharing data across different parts.
We've used the cart and the cart page here,
but maybe you want to update the cart on a different page and synchronize that data.
We'll be learning about the Vuex store in next video,
depending on when you're listening to this.
Otherwise, I will see you in the conclusion,
and I look forward to getting you started on your own class project.